---
layout: page
title: CSCE 2100 Foundations of Computing 1
description: Introduces both data structures and formalisms used in computer science, such as asymptotic behavior of algorithms.. 
img: /assets/img/CSCE2100.png
importance: 1
---

**Course Description**

Introduces students to both data structures and formalisms used in computer science, such as the asymptotic behavior of algorithms. Data structures and formalisms are used to both describe and evaluate those data structures simultaneously. By the end of the two-semester sequence of which this course is the first part, each student will have a solid foundation in conceptual and formal models, efficiency, and levels of abstraction as used in the field of computer science.

**Expected Student Outcomes**

Student Outcomes are measurable achievements to be accomplished by the completion of the degree.  These outcomes are evaluated as part of our ABET accreditation process.
* Computer Engineering Students
    * An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics.
    * An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies
* Computer Science Students: 
    * Analyze a complex computing problem and apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions.
    * Design, implement and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline.
    * Apply computer science theory and software development fundamentals to produce computing-based solutions.
 * Information Technology Students: 
    * Analyze a complex computing problem and apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions.
    * Design, implement and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline.
    * Identify and analyze user needs and take them into account in the selection, creation, integration, evaluation, and administration of computing-based systems.
  
**Course Outcomes** 

Course Outcomes are measurable achievements to be accomplished by the completion of the course.  These outcomes are evaluated as part of our ABET accreditation process.
* Define and use the basic operations of sets, functions, and relations.
* Define and demonstrate the basic properties of trees and graphs.
* Use the elementary graph and tree algorithms including traversals and searches.
* Describe assertions in propositional logic form.
* Describe simple circuits, I/O, and satisfiability using Boolean logic.
* Use combinatorics and conditional probability in solving real-world problems.
* Demonstrate a solid foundation in conceptual and formal models by describing loop structures in summation and/or product notation.
* Demonstrate an introductory knowledge of finite state machines.

**Assessments**

Assignments   | Weight
------------- | -------------
Homeowork assignments  | 30%
2 Midterm Exams  | 40%
Final Exam  | 25%
Attendance  | 5%
